
## How did we let this happen?

I see two parts to the issue: (1) economic decline and (2) spiritual and moral decline.

Every generation of America has had the outlook of living a better life than their forefathers. Millennials and Gen Z are getting the short end of the stick. We still live with our parents because we cannot afford housing. College is becoming more expensive, yet wages aren't increasing accordingly. AI, automation, and a host of other issues have killed our career outlook.

These issues manifest as anger towards the establishment.

## Despair

### Why We're Losing Young Men

When you feel that your prospects are down and that there is nothing you can do to fix it, the natural disposition is despair.

Inceldom and a general dissatisfaction among young men in America is the predictable reaction to a hardened society at. Many people (upsettingly, establishment Dems who claim we've gone "too woke") see culture wars as the reason young men have turned to Republicans. I believe that is a distraction.

Young men are conditioned to believe that they should be providers and that being providers is enough. They have been told that if they work as hard as their fathers, they will reap the same life---a stable, well-paying job to afford a house and provide for a family. This isn't the case anymore. Instead, men go to college without clear direction, drop out, get stuck in dead-end jobs, and then wrap themselves in self-hate.

Fascists and frauds fester in large groups of the dissatisfied. They will give simple solutions to complex problems and make promises to fix everything if they are given all the power.

For the Nazis, the hyperinflation of post WWI Germany caused by the Treaty of Versailles, paired with the memory of grave loss and horror of trench war, was the perfect environment to grow their ideology of hatred. Scapegoated Jews, Communists, homosexuals, and other minorities. They gave a very simple solution: extermination.

Today, right-wing conservatives capitalize on the dissatisfaction of young men by blaming feminists, LGBTQ, and "woke" ideology.

### Why We're Losing Minorities

Minorities turning to Republicans is the predictable reaction to slow Democratic policy failing to provide meaningful change. The Obama-era years of mass support for Democrats has gotten minorities... admittedly not much. If insanity is doing the same thing and expecting different results, minorities are quite sane. If you've seen clips of Zohran Mamdani interviewing people who switched to Trump in 2024, it's clear that they're not so much attracted to the Republican platform as they are looking for something different.

### Why We're Losing Support

In short, we're losing support because life sucks and Democrats have been ineffective at meaningfully attacking the problem. Republicans win out on the country swirling the drain because they are willing to keep tossing the hot potato. They sell lies and spread bigotry because hate *feels good*. They cut taxes to pump the markets, only delaying the debt bomb. Meanwhile, Democrats drag their feet on change.

The problem with this despair, while expected, is that it does not help us fix our problems. Voting for Republicans will not fix anything.

## Humanity

### We Need to be Human Again

We are facing a crisis in being human.

It began with the Industrial Revolution and people being reduced to machines that perform repetitive tasks for a wage. It worsened with nuclear households and suburbia (I could go on a tangent about zoning and urban design) which has isolated us from extended family and complex structures of social support.

I recently rewatched Netflix's limited series *The Queen's Gambit* where Beth's adopted mother Alma is left a lost and drifting housewife. With her ambitions to be a piano player crushed, no job, no friends, and no caring family aside from Beth, she spends her days eating microwave dinners while watching the TV alone in the dark. To pacify her sorrows she takes green and white pills---tranquility medicine.

Today, those pills have transformed into social media and the internet which dulls our longing for real relationships.

People are starving for something more than just survival---purpose.
